# PROJECT
Repository of the analysis performed for my M2 thesis of the formation MODE : "Cryptic evolution of body size in response to climate change in the Alpine marmot". This intership was supervised by Christophe BONENFANT (LBBE) and Céline TEPLITSKY (CEFE). 

# ABSTRACT
Body size shrinking, alongside geographical shifts in better suited areas and advanced phenology, has been proposed as a third universal response to climate change. While the adaptive and plastic/evolutionary nature of geographical shifts and phenology are well-understood, questions persist regarding body size modifications, despite its significant impact on life history traits. Various hypotheses, including Bergmann's rule, stating body shrinking with increased temperature, and the environmental stress hypothesis, have been proposed to explain body size responses to climate change. In a 34-year longitudinal study on Alpine marmots since 1997, we investigated changes in body mass and size to explore their adaptiveness and plastic/evolutionary nature using quantitative genetics models. Our findings show a decrease in juvenile body size over time, partially mitigated by natural selection favoring larger individuals. This non-adaptive body size reduction contradicts Bergmann's rule, suggesting an environmental constraint on marmot body development. Furthermore, natural selection's effect is obscured by an opposing phenotypic trend, illustrating a rare case of 'cryptic evolution'.

# CONTENTS OF THE GITHUB
- FUNCTIONS.R: script containing all the functions used for data description, GAM modelling, computing genetic parameters from animal models and for vizualization. 
- RMD.DATA_DESCRIPTION.html: an interactive Rmarkdown file containing general description of the dataset, pedigree analysis, exploration of identifiability of parameters and a test for observer bias in the measure of body mass and body size.
- RMD.ANIMAL_MODEL.html: an interactive Rmarkdown file containing analysis for the animal models presented in the memoire.
